# DIGF5006 - New Interfaces for Musical Expression - OCAD University
## Blog
### Post 1 - May 18, 2018
#### Performer Audience Contract
A most interesting tangent emerged during our first 'sounding' session as part of Adam Tindale's new course New Interfaces for Musical Expression. If that's familiar tituallary, it's an homage to the course's inpsiration, NIME – The International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression. It's the first iteration of the course, but Adam's connection to the conference and his depth experience forecasts an exciting, engaging, and exprerimental six weeks.
Back to the tangent, in our first experimental listening and performance 'sounding' session, we embarked on a lively debate on the definition of a performance in a musical context. More specifically, we explored the figurative contract a performer has with their audience. Are their requirements of a peformer to qualify as such? If so, what are they?
Does a musician need to perform using their voice or other musical instrument in a performance? If yes, further gradations arise in the variances and possibilities of musical instruments themselves. Electronic instruments are ubiquitous in comtemporary performancs, but there's a wide range of interactions and engagement with the the apparatus that divides opinion on the validity of the resulting performance. Adam had a great example of the Orb, pushing play at the top of their set and then engaging in a game of chess for the duration of the musical experience. The interesting thing about this example is that no effort was spent on trying to deceive the audience as to their on-stage activities or their real-time influence over the music playback. There's an honesty to this 
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zKQhB9Z5Jxg?start=10" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
